---
date: '2016-02-10'
recovered_from: wayback
slug: post-1418
source_file: data\normalized\suburbandestiny.com\root\index.html
source_site: suburbandestiny-tech
source_url: http://www.suburbandestiny.com/?p=1418
title: Nonauthoritative discussion of how to do discussion with Robert’s Rules
---


A key principle in Roberts Rules is that people can’t just talk when they feel like it.


1\) **At ease** (meeting on hold, talk amongst yourselves)– this is for when Chair is consulting, looking up rules. Also for meeting breaks.  

2\) **Talking with out pending motion** (**at chair’s sufferance** or until point of order at which point a motion \*must be made\* or stop talking)  

3\) **Move to read a document** (“right to read”), member asks permission of assembly to read something  

4\) **Officer and committee reports** (opportunity to just talk, usually on regular agenda \& favors officers, committees)  

5\) **Guest reports**  (opportunity for just anyone to talk like officers do.)  

6\) **Small board rules** (no limits on debate, may interrupt, other things)  

7\) **Committee rules.** (no limits on debate) May talk without a motion pending, in fact, if the whole point of a committee is to come up with a motion no motion will be pending. Also, if the point of a committee is to merely report, then again, no motion would be pending.  

8\) **(Quasi) Committee of the whole** (whole assembly/board acts as a committee temporarily). Ends as soon as a motion is adopted/ready to make a motion. (Quasi means chair stays the same)  

9\) **Informal consideration** (similar to small board rules, except still requires a motion to be under consideration?) Wikipedia says same as usual except no limit on \# of times someone can speak to a topic. This is not as lax as the name sounds.  

10\) “**Informal consultation to assist the framing of a motion”** When the member rises to speak and promises to make a motion, but has some preliminaries to say.  

11\) **Programs.** E.g. watching a movie, listening to music, and I suppose, other non\-deliberative entertainments.  

12\) **Explanation of a pending, undebatable motion.** Brief statement of fact about why we gotta adjourn. Otherwise, it’d be against the rules to say, “The game starts in 10, we gotta adjourn”  

13\) **Hearings.** This is something that happens in committees. The committee calls people before it to talk. People can talk without a motion pending. Only committee members have a right to talk.  

14\) **Recess.** Temporary break in meeting. Talking between the meeting not governed by any particular parliamentary procedure. Same for just before and after the meeting.  

15\) **Adjournment.** Discussion between meetings, which can be subject to condo \& HOA rules.