---
date: '2015-01-23'
recovered_from: wayback
slug: post-1350
source_file: C:\github\dead_blog\data\normalized\www.suburbandestiny.com\root\__query__\p\1350\index.html
source_site: suburbandestiny-tech
source_url: http://www.suburbandestiny.com/?p=1350
title: What issues matter, what can be done about them
---


So when my vote was suppressed, I swore I’d do something about it. And so far I have.


**Political Action Groups**I’m now a member of NRDC, Oceana– those are enviornmental protection groups, HSUS, PETA, COK– all animal rights groups, the Brady Campaign, Americans for Nonsmoker’s Rights, the Southern Poverty Law Center, ACLU and EFF.


**Individual Politicians**  

I’ve given money to three candidates nationwide who support doing something about the out of control situation with guns. I also gave money to my local Democratic candidates.


**Meetups.**I organize the Progressive Book Club of Takoma Park. Picking books was more challenging than I expected– while the right writes identifiable right wing screeds, the left tends to write nonfiction and works of journalism. Oddly, right wingers signed up and at least one left winger refused to sign up because the group didn’t look radial enough. It’s hard to please.


**Funding What Should be in Society**  

In addition to giving money to the government to encourage it to spend money on issues of importance (instead of tax subsidies\-i.e. business tax cuts\- in return for campaign contributions), I’m directly giving my money to good causes, such as the Poplar Spring Run (a local animal sanctuary), the Takoma Coffee Shop “La Mano”, the Takoma Community Kitchen, and micro\-finance lending via Kiva.


**Boycotting What Shouldn’t be in Society**  

I am boycotting Monsanto. I’m dedicated to cutting out non\-organic food from my diet. Since Monsanto only sells poison to homeowners (roundup) and farmers– which I am neither, I can’t effectively stop buying from them unless I stop buying from farmers who buy from Monsanto. I do what I can to harass my building about the pesticides they put on the lawn. So far, only a local ordinance has suggested that the building’s board and management company might stop trying to poison us all.  It depends on enforcement.


**Online**  

It’s all new, so it’s hard to say how effective it is. I tweet, re\-tweet, I sign petitions. I click “like” and occasionally re\-post. I try to be loud about writing a check.


Some things I won’t do online: get into fruitless discussion in the comment section of the news or fight a flame war with anyone. I’m going to see if a blog coupled with twitter \& Facebook integration will provide the reach to those who I’d like to reach: progressives who want to do something, but don’t know what. People who would do something, but don’t know it needs to be done.