---
date: '2013-06-02'
recovered_from: wayback
slug: post-1036
source_file: data\normalized\suburbandestiny.com\root\__query__\p\1036\index.html
source_site: suburbandestiny-tech
source_url: http://www.suburbandestiny.com/?p=1036
title: Poor Vegan and Post Apocalyptic Vegan
---


If veganism \& vegetarianism is right, it needs to be right in a variety of circumstances, not just in upper middle class white America.


**Poor Vegan**  

Inspired by some of the ideas of challenges posted to try to live for a week on the money a poor family gets for food stamps or the cash the urban 3rd world poor have to survive on, I thought, “Gee, could I do that and still stick to my principles?” This isn’t entirely academic, college students if they are living on their own earnings are pretty poor vegans.


The meal plan would have to be subject to:  

Money constraints. $35 – $50 a week. So vegeburger, tofu, seitan, frozen TVP products are going to be out.  

Ethics constrains. Dairy (if any) \& food should be organic.  

Time constraints. 1/2 a day for cooking, with 2 hours per day for cooking on weekends.


1st pass ideas for staples: rice \& beans. Homemade peanut milk or sunflower seed milk.


**Post Apocalyptic Vegan**  

I’ve been an environmentalist since college, but I’m so constrained by the decisions of the herd when it comes to sustainability. So my sort of pessimistic about the future. I figure that there will be a series of collapses in key things like long distance trade and petroleum based agriculture. If veganism is the right thing to do, then it should be the right thing to do when food is being sourced from the surrounding few hundred miles.


Constraints:  

Local foods only. So a hypothetical Post Apocalyptic Vegan/Vegetarian book would have to have a section for each region of the US/world.  

Maybe constraints on technology \& processing. Cooking with blenders, dehydrators, freezers… I know that when civilization collapses the know\-how won’t disappear, but the machinery and parts will be harder to come by.  

Potentially growable by amateurs. Already you can see large urban cities abroad with food insecurity begin to rely on small urban gardens to supplement their food.  

Potentially storable over the winter. And if food supplies are unreliable, they will be especially so during winter. So there has to be some strategy for keeping food over a winter without freezing it.


1st pass idea for staples (Washington DC area): corn, potatoes, sweet potatoes, cabbage. Homemade pecan, hazelnut or peanut milk– no clue if this could be feasibly done without a blender.