---
date: '2013-06-20'
recovered_from: wayback
slug: post-1042
source_file: data\normalized\suburbandestiny.com\root\__query__\p\1042\index.html
source_site: suburbandestiny-tech
source_url: http://www.suburbandestiny.com/?p=1042
title: Food Stamp Diet- Ghetto Vegan Pancakes
---


[This recipe is a very good vegan pancake recipe](http://theveganzombie.com/?p=584). The exact recipe calls for a sweet pancake with spices suitable for a sweet dish, like cinnamon. But I’ve experimented and found that if you drop the spice and sugars (except maybe a teaspoon or two) it works fine for savory pancakes. I use less salt than called for.


Vegan pancakes are hard to flip. Unless you know the secrets. One secret is to not flip them. If you can flip them, wait until there top of the pancake has changed color from the wet batter color to the darker “cooked” color.


Add a melted solid fat to the batter. I’ve used palm oil (vegan margarine sticks) and coconut oil. They both perform much better than no solid fats at all. I usually still include some liquid oil. 


Most recipes call for 1/2 cup of batter per pancake, which would make a 7\-8 inch pancake. I find 1/3 cup is a more typical maximum size before flipping problems occur.


**Making it Ghetto Style.**  

So lets assume we are poor and living on a food stamp diet. The flour is cheap, fake milk is not and solid vegan fats are entirely tropical (palm oil, palm kernel oil, coconut oil, cocoa butter) or it’s shit you shouldn’t eat– hydrogenated oil, or it isn’t vegan…e.g. dairy butter.


Margarine is available just about anywhere, and sometimes it is vegan \& not hydrogenated. It’s carefully engineered to be spreadable, so melting it doesn’t really play to it’s strengths.


**Untested Crazy Idea**  

I haven’t tested cocoa butter, but I’ve read recipes for home\-made vegan butter that used cocoa butter. But it cost $13\-$20 a lb and it seems to only be available by mail order– not even my local co\-op has it, so it wouldn’t be very ghetto to make cocoa butter pancakes…but chocolate is easy to find, albeit still about $16 a lb in bar form. You can get 70% chocolate– melted with say 50% liquid vegetable oil, a half of a bar would provide the sugar and the solid vegetable fat. And the pancakes would taste intensely of chocolate. But I haven’t tried it.


**Fake Milk**  

So far I’ve tried pancakes with soy milk, almond milk, sunflower seed milk– all store bought varieties. They all work fine. The sort of fake milk you use doesn’t seem to matter. I’ve also tried making pancakes with apple cider instead of milk– it works, but not as well as a nut milk. To get the cost of nut milk down, one has to make it at home. Pancakes seem to be a good application for homemade milk– the pulp wouldn’t get wasted. Ghetto fake milk is sunflower seed milk, since it is by far the cheapest nut or seed you can make milk out of, except if and when peanuts become cheaper.


The old pancake tips still apply, use a tiny drop to test if the pan is hot enough yet. Watch for bubbles to form– bubbles stop forming, it’s getting closer. Crispy edges are also a sign of doneness. If the pancakes are sticking, try to lift up all the edges before attempting a flip. Very little oil on the fry pan– don’t add oil as you go unless you want greasy pancakes. More butter \& milk will make for a pancake more like a Swedish pancake. More flour will eventually make fluffy pancakes that may be hard to flip, hard to cook in the middle and act more like “pan biscuits” than pan cakes. And if you have the time, you can use yeast instead for the source of bubbles, but yeast is all around harder to work with. (But it will give you different texture, more like very thin bread)