---
date: '2015-04-08'
recovered_from: wayback
slug: post-1376
source_file: C:\github\dead_blog\data\normalized\www.suburbandestiny.com\root\__query__\p\1376\index.html
source_site: suburbandestiny-tech
source_url: http://www.suburbandestiny.com/?p=1376
title: The first rule of Math Club is you can only talk about it in symbols and notation
---


I could give a flying f about little league. I care about Robotics and Math club.


**First impressions of Math Clubs.**  

A math class is like a contract. “Student, learn this algorithm for problems of this type and you will get an A.” Importantly, in math class, everyone in theory can get an A. Math club looks like a math class with a different agreement, “Participants, train on problems of increasing difficulty. You will get a test where the last problems are so hard, no one will solve them. This will minimize the chance of ties and the participants will get fame and glory based on their rank, either on a per team basis or a per participant basis”  But otherwise, it looks like a math class.


**Second impression of Math Clubs.**It looks like a sport.  In sports, everyone can run. Not everyone can run fast. Not everyone can figure out that only about 10 or so of the numbers from 1 to 100 can be written as a non\-terminating decimal. Some not at all. So a fair sport in the math sense is like mental math– everyone can do arithmetic, some can do it faster or more accurately that others.  A similar analogy can be made with spelling bees\- everyone can spell something, some can spell more words, the winning word is still something that in theory any participant could do. I admit, I haven’t completely rigorously worked out how a speed arithmetic test is like running, but solving increasingly difficult “puzzle” problems isn’t.


**Third impression of Math Clubs.**It is a game among players and team where there the actions of the other teams do not figure much into your decisions about how you play the game.


**Grades 0\-5**  

Arithmetic Club. I have no idea if these exist. If they did, they should be kind of like spelling bees, with round 1 mental math, round 2 calculator math and round 3 historical devices (e.g. abacus)  

Kumon. Worksheets with a focus on speed and arithmetic.


\[Arithmetic, Pre\-calc]  

\[Typing!]  

\[Scratch]


**Grades 4\- 8**  

Math Olimpiad. The contest for the youngest participants, 4th grade. http://www.moems.org/contests.htm


**Grades 6\-12**  

Math Club. Works like a study group, solving problems to practice  

e.g. National Math Club/MathCounts  

Math Contests. Big sit down tests.  

e.g. AMC 8, AMC 10  

Mu Alpha Theta National Convention, Log1


Math League\- http://www.mathleague.com/


\[Pre\-Algebra, Algebra, Pre\-Calc] — Why so late?  

\[Python, Ruby, Javascript]


**Grades 9\-12**  

Robotics Club. Building robots and programming them in C\+\+ and Java.


\[Geometry, Calculus, Discrete Mathematics]