---
date: '2015-01-15'
recovered_from: wayback
slug: post-1352
source_file: data\normalized\www.suburbandestiny.com\root\__query__\p\1352\index.html
source_site: suburbandestiny-tech
source_url: http://www.suburbandestiny.com/?p=1352
title: Votes get suppressed. What can you do to replace a vote?
---


Okay, for the last two elections, lines started to get really long. Now when I changed states, I couldn’t vote because I didn’t have a driver’s license. I take the metro. So apparently, anyone who takes mass transit is liable to commit voter fraud, or more likely, not Republican enough for the corrupt voting boards.


Voter suppression is the rightwing strategy to make voting difficult for women and minorities and city dwellers so that Republicans will remain a viable party.


Unlike the the poor, black, asian and so on that the Republicans really wanted to suppress, this time they suppress the vote of a white guy. I wasn’t going to vote for Republicans anyhow, but now I’m mad. So I’m joining as many progressive political groups as I can, top among those MoveOn and the ACLU, both which are working on voter’s rights. So here are some things I will be doing in my spare time over the next 40 years since voting isn’t a sure thing anymore. I’ve added my rough estimate of how many vote equivalents each is worth, and given that the Electoral College system makes the marginal vote about as important as mouse farts, maybe in the long run this will work out of the better. All the same, better than a successful revolution after a nearly stolen election, I’d rather not have the Sith Lords take over in the first place.


**Donate to GA, TX and AR Democratic party.** Worth **50** Votes.  

Money talks, well, as long as you have an attractive candidate. And the Dems have more attractive candidates. If GA, TX and AR turn blue, the GOP will be excluded from the presidency for generations. There aren’t enough old white men in those states for the GOP to govern without repeal non\-white and women franchise and maybe the repeal of voting altogether.


**I’m going to read the news** Worth **25** votes.  

The poor and disenfranchised are getting screwed because they aren’t paying attention. I can read, I read fast and I use RSS and I can amplify the the news that is being ignored. I even have truth on myside– since as a progressive I won’t need to make up material.


**I’m going to blog.** Worth **6** votes.  

My task as a political blogger is much easier than for conservative bloggers as I only need teach people how to resist voter suppression, where as conservatives have to move the opinions of their sole audience of old white men to political la\-la land and get them to vote. Despite the barriers.


**I’m joining about about 22\-25 groups**. Worth about 20 votes.  

Votes in congress are only one way that policy gets made. I don’t have $300 million for attack ads, but I got a few hundred bucks to fund a variety of lawyers, think tanks, activists, watch groups that help decide what congress will be voting on in the first place.


**I organize meetups.** Worth about 15 votes.  

I’ve organized so many meetups I’ve lost count. I create groups like I sneeze. In this election I saw that right wing literature is outselling progressive books. I suspect that in part that is because a lefty will read the original, say, Darwin’s Descent of Man, which is not the the politics section, while right wingers need to have their books written by ideological hacks, which will end up in the politics section.


**I’m taking election day off. Forever.** Worth 20 votes.  

I’m not working class. I can afford to use my vacation days to vote and to spend the day driving people to the polls.


It’s time to take America back from the corrupt right wing voting boards.


(First posted Nov 12, 2012\)